"Noteblocks" now has an official name (#35183)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/howto/markdown_in_mdn/index.md

## Notes, warnings, and callouts

> Sometimes writers want to call special attention to a piece of content. To do this, they will use the [proposed GFM Alerts syntax](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/16925), which is a GFM blockquote with a special first line. There are three types of these: notes, warnings, and callouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes writers want to call special attention to a piece of content. To do this, they can use the [GFM Alerts syntax](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/16925), which is a GFM blockquote with a special first line. There are three types of these: notes, warnings, and callouts.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > MDN Web Docs supported GFM Alerts with its own syntax before the GFM proposal was formed. As such, MDN supports only two of the five alert types GFM supports, and it supports an additional type that GFM does not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> MDN Web Docs supported Alerts with its own syntax before the GFM proposal was formed. As such, MDN supports only two of the five alert types GFM supports, and it supports an additional type that GFM does not.
```

Author: I think that we should still include "GFM" and refer to it as "GFM Alerts", because it _is_ a GFM extension.

Reviewer: GFM alert is a specific syntax `> [!NOTE]`. We supported alerts, but not the GFM version.

Reviewer 2: @queengooborg I agree with @Josh-Cena, though perhaps alerts does not need to be capitalised

```suggestion
> MDN Web Docs supported alerts with its own syntax before the GFM proposal was formed. As such, MDN supports only two of the five alert types GFM supports, and it supports an additional type that GFM does not.
```

Author: Alright then, if you both feel that the "GFM" bit doesn't need to be mentioned, let's remove said mention!

>

> > Before the syntax had an official name, MDN referred to GFM Alerts as "noteblocks".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before the syntax had an official name, MDN referred to Alerts as "noteblocks".
```

> - To add a note, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!NOTE]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To add a note, create a blockquote whose first line is `[!NOTE]`.
```

Same below

## Notes, warnings, and callouts

> Writers can use the [GFM Alerts syntax](https://github.blog/changelog/2023-12-14-new-markdown-extension-alerts-provide-distinctive-styling-for-significant-content/) to call special attention to content. There are three types of alerts: notes, warnings, and callouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writers can use the [GFM alerts syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts) to call special attention to content. There are three types of alerts: notes, warnings, and callouts.
```

> Sometimes writers want to call special attention to a piece of content. To do this, they can use the [GFM Alerts syntax](https://github.blog/changelog/2023-12-14-new-markdown-extension-alerts-provide-distinctive-styling-for-significant-content/), which is a blockquote with a special first line. There are three types of these: notes, warnings, and callouts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Writers can use the [GFM Alerts syntax](https://github.blog/changelog/2023-12-14-new-markdown-extension-alerts-provide-distinctive-styling-for-significant-content/) to call special attention to content. There are three types of alerts: notes, warnings, and callouts.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > MDN Web Docs supported Alerts with its own syntax before the GFM proposal was formed. As such, MDN supports only two of the five alert types GFM supports, and it supports an additional type that GFM does not.
> >
> > Before the syntax had an official name, MDN referred to Alerts as "noteblocks".

Reviewer 2: This might be better:

```suggestion
> MDN Web Docs supported alerts with its own syntax prior to support for GFM alerts, and referred to them as "noteblocks".
> MDN supports only two of the five alert types that GFM supports, and it supports an additional type that GFM does not.
```

I don't understand the mapping - does GFM omit support for Note, Warning, or callouts? What is the extra type.
That second sentence should be tidied based on the answer.

Author: GFM doesn't have support for callouts, which is our own addition.  GFM also supports tip, caution and important Alerts, which we do not.

Reviewer 2: Something like

```suggestion
> MDN Web Docs supported alerts with its own syntax prior to support for GFM alerts, and referred to them as "noteblocks".
> MDN does not support the following GFM alerts: `[!TIP]`, `[!CAUTION]`, `[!IMPORTANT]`.
> GFM does not support `[!CALLOUT]`.
```

- To add a note, create a blockquote whose first line is `[!NOTE]`.

> - To add a warning, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!WARNING]`.
> - To add a callout, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!CALLOUT]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To add a warning, create a blockquote whose first line is `[!WARNING]`.
- To add a callout, create a blockquote whose first line is `[!CALLOUT]`.
```

> - To add a note, create a blockquote whose first line is `[!NOTE]`.
> - To add a warning, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!WARNING]`.
> - To add a callout, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!CALLOUT]`.

Reviewer 2: Assuming I don't know what a blockquote is, and even if I do, this is more clear - can't get it to render properly because of the backticks but you get the idea.

```suggestion
- To add a note, create a blockquote whose first line is `[!NOTE]`:

  ```md
  > [!NOTE]
  > Text for the note
  ```

- To add a warning, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!WARNING]`:

  ```md
  > [!WARNING]
  > Text for the note
  ```

- To add a callout, create a GFM blockquote whose first line is `[!CALLOUT]`:

  ```md
  > [!CALLOUT]
  > Text for the note
  ```
```

Author: We have examples already below these lines, I don't think we need to add them again here?

Reviewer 2: Yes, ignore me. Didn't read down far enough.

Notes and warnings will add a localized **Note:** or **Warning:** to the beginning of the output, while callouts will not. This makes callouts a good choice when an author wants to provide a custom title.

> [!WARNING]
> In the older MDN syntax, the type was localized and added to the first paragraph in bold text, i.e. `**Note:** Foo bar` instead of `[!NOTE] ⏎ Foo bar`.
>
> The older syntax is still supported for migration purposes. Avoid using it in new documentation.

> [!WARNING]

> > Currently, due to a [Prettier bug](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15479), GFM Alerts syntax cannot be used if the first character of a note or warning is a formatting symbol, such as a backquote, asterisk, square bracket or curly bracket. In this case, use the old syntax `> **Note:**` instead. Writers are not required to rephrase the content to work around the formatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, due to a [Prettier bug](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15479), the GFM alert syntax cannot be used if the first character of a note or warning is a formatting symbol, such as a backquote, asterisk, square bracket or curly bracket. In this case, use the old syntax `> **Note:**` instead. Writers are not required to rephrase the content to work around the formatter.
```

Notes and warnings will add a localized **Note:** or **Warning:** to the beginning of the output, while callouts will not. This makes callouts a good choice when an author wants to provide a custom title.

> [!WARNING]
> In the older MDN syntax, the type was localized and added to the first paragraph in bold text, i.e. `**Note:** Foo bar` instead of `[!NOTE] ⏎ Foo bar`.
>
> The older syntax is still supported for migration purposes. Avoid using it in new documentation.

> [!WARNING]

> > Currently, due to a [Prettier bug](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15479), GFM Alerts syntax cannot be used if the first character of a note or warning is a formatting symbol, such as a backquote, asterisk, square bracket or curly bracket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, due to a [Prettier bug](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15479), GFM Alerts syntax cannot be used if the first character of a note or warning is a formatting symbol, such as a backquote, asterisk, square bracket or curly bracket. In this case, use the old syntax `> **Note:**` instead. Writers are not required to rephrase the content to please the formatter.
```
